A BRITISH journalist arrested for being part of a plot to discredit South Africa's World Cup security is on his own. A BRITISH journalist arrested for being part of a plot to discredit South Africa's World Cup security is on his own. The police arrested Simon Wright, 44, on Monday and he was charged  with defeating the ends of justice and contravening the Immigration Act. He is also accused of harbouring British fan Pavlos Joseph, who stormed  the England  team's dressing room in Cape Town after their  match against Algeria on June 18. Brigadier Sally de Beer said Wright was granted R3000 bail when he appeared in  court in Cape Town on Monday. He is due back in court today. Police chief General Bheki Cele told the National Press club in Pretoria that the police    believed Wright  "orchestrated" Joseph's breach of security. "We believe this  was orchestrated and involved the cooperation of a number of individuals,"  Cele said. The police also accuse  Wright of  booking Joseph  into a hotel, allegedly using false or incorrect particulars, and interviewing him after the dressing room incident. "The police  believe the motive was to show the World Cup security in a bad light and possibly to profit from the act," Cele said. While Britain's Sunday Mirror defended Wright's actions yesterday, the British embassy,     SA government and   SA National Editors Forum distanced themselves from Wright. Embassy spokesperson Gary Benham said   Wright would have to face   prosecution on his own. "We never comment on judiciary processes  against British nationals," Benham  said. International Relations and Cooperation department spokesperson Saul Molobi said they would not approach their UK counterparts. "We would  raise the matter through diplomatic channels  if a government or an embassy official were involved." Molobi said since Wright was   a private citizen the department  would leave the matter to the police. Sanef chairperson Jovial Rantao said Wright would have to face the law. "Journalists are not above the law, and Wright must face  the consequences of breaking the law," he said. Cele said yesterday that Wright and Joseph were not acting alone. He said video footage would prove this theory. After the incident, the Sunday Mirror reported how Joseph had confronted former England captain David Beckham in the change rooms. He reportedly told Beckham: "David, we've spent a lot of money getting here. This is a disgrace. What are you going to do about it?" England drew 0-0 with Algeria. Nick Fullagar, spokesperson for the British newspaper group Trinity Mirror which owns the Sunday Mirror, defended Wright's actions last night. "It was an absolutely legitimate story that he was involved in," Fullagar was quoted as saying on the Sunday Mirror website. He said  the journalist "conducted himself properly as he would have here in the UK. We have spoken to him and he's got a lawyer".